Add Disk Throttle Resource Limit Support (#26392)
hashicorp/nomad: website/content/docs/job-specification/disk_throttle.mdx

---
layout: docs

> page_title: disk_throttles block in the job specification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
page_title: disk_throttle block in the job specification
```

changed to match the block name

description: |-

>   Configure disk I/O throttling limits in the `disk_throttles` block of the Nomad job specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Configure disk I/O throttling limits in the `disk_throttle` block of the Nomad job specification.
```

---

# `disk_throttle` block in the job specification

<Placement groups={['job', 'group', 'task', 'resources', 'disk_throttle']} />

> The disk_throttle block is used to set limits on the disk I/O (Input/Output) a task can perform on a specific block device. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `disk_throttle` block to set limits on the disk I/O (Input/Output) a task can perform on a specific block device. 
```

- Block name in code backticks
- [Use active voice ](https://github.com/hashicorp/web-unified-docs/blob/main/docs/style-guide/top-12.md#write-in-active-voice)

> This block helps mitigate the "noisy neighbor" problem, where a single task consuming excessive disk bandwidth can negatively impact other tasks running on the same node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This block helps mitigate the noisy neighbor problem, where a single task consuming excessive disk bandwidth can negatively impact other tasks running on the same node.
```

Nit: remove quotes around noisy neighbor

> When a disk_throttle block is added, Nomad will limit the task's I/O throughput in bytes per second (BPS) or I/O operations per second (IOPS). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you add a `disk_throttle` block, Nomad limits the task's I/O throughput in bytes per second (BPS) or I/O operations per second (IOPS). 
```

- [Use active voice](https://github.com/hashicorp/web-unified-docs/blob/main/docs/style-guide/top-12.md#write-in-active-voice)
- [Use present tense](https://github.com/hashicorp/web-unified-docs/blob/main/docs/style-guide/top-12.md#use-simple-present-tense-to-describe-immediate-actions)

This feature is primarily implemented using Linux cgroups.

```hcl
job "docs" {
  group "example" {
    task "database" {
      resources {
        disk_throttle {
          # Major/minor number of the device (e.g., /dev/sda is 8:0)
          major      = 8
          minor      = 0

          # Limit read/write speed to 10 MB/s
          read_bps   = 10485760
          write_bps  = 10485760

          # Limit read/write operations to 100 per second
          read_iops  = 100
          write_iops = 100
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> In the example above, the database task is subject to I/O limits on the device with major number 8 and minor number 0. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the preceding example, the database task is subject to I/O limits on the device with major number 8 and minor number 0. 
```

We avoid using directional words like above and below. Instead:
- above -> preceding
- below -> following

The read and write bandwidth are each limited to 10 MB/s, and the I/O operations are limited to 100 per second.

> ~> Compatibility: Disk throttling is currently limited to Linux 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~> Compatibility: Disk throttling is currently limited to Linux. 
```

> ## `disk_throttle` Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## `disk_throttle` parameters
```

[Use sentence case for titles and headings](https://github.com/hashicorp/web-unified-docs/blob/main/docs/style-guide/general/titles-and-headings.md#use-sentence-case-for-titles-headings-and-navigation-labels)

- `major` `(int: <required>)` - Specifies the major number of the block device to throttle. You can find this on Linux using the ls -l /dev/DEVICE_NAME command.

- `minor` `(int: <required>)` - Specifies the minor number of the block device to throttle.

- `read_bps` `(int: <optional>)` - Specifies the maximum read speed for the device in Bytes per Second.

- `write_bps` `(int: <optional>)` - Specifies the maximum write speed for the device in Bytes per Second.

- `read_iops` `(int: <optional>)` - Specifies the maximum read operations for the device in I/O Operations Per Second.

- `write_iops` `(int: <optional>)` - Specifies the maximum write operations for the device in I/O Operations Per Second.

> ## `disk_throttle` Examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## `disk_throttle` examples

```

The following examples only show the `disk_throttle` blocks. 

> Remember that the `disk_throttle` block is only valid in the placements listed above.

Reviewer: What do you think about removing this sentence ("Remember that...)? I don't think it's needed.

> ### Limiting Bandwidth (BPS)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Limiting bandwidth (BPS)
```

> This example limits the read and write bandwidth of a specific device to 50 MB/s.

Reviewer: Thank you for adding an explanation to each of the examples!

```hcl
disk_throttle {
  major      = 8
  minor      = 16
  read_bps   = 52428800  # 50 MB/s
  write_bps  = 52428800  # 50 MB/s
}
```

> ### Limiting Operations (IOPS)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Limiting operations (IOPS)
```

This example limits the read and write operations of a specific device to 200 per second.

```hcl
disk_throttle {
  major      = 8
  minor      = 16
  read_iops  = 200
  write_iops = 200
}
```

> ### Throttling Multiple Devices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Throttling multiple devices
```

> You can repeat the disk_throttle block to apply different I/O policies to multiple devices for a single task. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can repeat the `disk_throttle` block to apply different I/O policies to multiple devices for a single task. 
```
